---
layout: post
title: "Rational, opinionated, non-objective and philosophy-less take on Israel Palestine"
category: Politics
tags:
 - English
 - Israel
 - Palestine
---

This is a very complex(-ified) topic everyone has a different take on, and I'm not very interested in inaccurately rewriting my thoughts about it again and again;
So here it is, fully.

{% include toc %}

# Terminology

The two sides of this conflict use widely different meanings for various terms. In this post,
* I *won't* use the terms **Colonization**, **Apartheid**, and **Genocide**. The less fancy words I use, the more people will bother reading this product of hours of my time,
  and the more we can just agree how this entire fiasco just so fucked up, instead of arguing about words.
* **Directly involved organization** refers to Israel, the Palestinian Authority, Hezbollah, Hamas, and Iran.
* **Israel** refers to the State of Israel.
* **Israel Palestine** refers to all land under Israel or Palestine at the time of [Rabbin's assassination][Assassination of Rabbin], including Gaza.
* **Judea** refers to the *current* government of Israel, as of 2024.
* **Judea and Samaria** is the transliteration of the Hebrew name for the West Bank, "יהודה ושומרון".
* **Kahanism**[^1] refers to the flavour of Jewish Supremacy started by [Meir Kahane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meir_Kahane)
  and continued by [Ben Gvir] (the ideology American pro-Palestinians call "Zionism").
* **Lebanon** refers to the State of Lebanon, not neccessarily Hezbollah.
* **Levant** refers to the geographical core of the conflict: Israel, Palestine, Gaza, Lebanon, Jordan.
* **Palestine** refers to the de-facto non-existant State of Palestine.
* **Palestinian Authority**, or **PA** refers to the autonomous council ruling the West Bank.
* **Racism** has its usual meaning, with a twist: In Israel Palestine, Racism is based on culture, not skin color.
* **Zionism** refers to Israeli patriotism (that is, the Israeli meaning).

# The Parties Involved

I don't think it is rational to form a take on a conflict without first understanding the motives of all involved parties; Therfore, here's an alphabetical list of them, for your convenience.

Note, as the only recently-democratic directly involved organization (and due to its own assassinations), Israel has a much more stable and therefore, relevant web of motivations in its government than other organizations;
I'm not going to bother documenting Hamas' nor Hezbollah's weekly designated survivors, and as an Israeli, I do not have nearly enough information about specific members of the Iranian government to document it sufficiently.

## Israel

The current government is dependent on four things:
* The Israeli population's acceptence of the need for the war (this is why a lot of Israelis oppose ceasefires; they truly believe the war is *needed*).
* The Palestinian population's lack of ability to organize without support from bodys with different motives, such as [Iran], its proxies, or the [Palestinian Authority].
* External Funding and Trade, due to [Netanjahu]'s abolishment of support for local farming, weapon factories, etc. the last decade,
  in addition to Obama restricting usage of American funding to American soil.

Israel uses patriotism (Zionism), financial incentives (as serving in the IDF is a valuable badge on high-tech resumes; plus, permanent service),
and legally required regular and reserve service to recruit to the IDF.

Keep in mind, this is a huge oversimplification of less-relevant-to-this-topic aspects of Israeli politics, and of some of the more-relevant ones as well—I've
chosen to list the most prominent and usually talked about politicians; Let me know if you think I should add someone.

### The Netanjahus

[Ben Gvir] holds the Netanjahus as political hostages—in the last elections, [B. Netanjahu] did not win enough votes to become Prime Minister without allying with supremacist parties,
who can therefore exit the coalition any time, immediately ending Netanjahu's term. That is: Netanjahu is *not* fully in charge; Ben Gvir has a 'right' to veto.
*This does not mean he's innocent of his countless crimes*.

The Netanjahus have a son currently (2024) living in the USA under government protection, Ya'ir Netanjahu, who was involved in *several* racist controversies;
Some of their political, whole-country-affecting decisions can be atributted to trying to protect their son; It is plausible they're Helicopter parents and a threat to their son,
to them, is a threat to the entire nation; therefore, it is likely they'll attempt to establish a monarchy some time in the future.

#### Prime Minister Binyamin Netanjahu

He's a classic case of political egoism; He's sure that without him, the State of Israel cannot survive, and therefore, to keep him on his throne (and in his point of view, to save Israel),
any action is justifiable; He cannot differentiate between his own interests and the people's, and
he will do anything to remain in power, regardless of how it seems to harm his ideology, country, or party.

This do-anything approach includes (depends on who you ask) abandoing the hostages or intentionally killing them;
As freed hostages are likely to become the opposition's heroes, and giving your enemy war heroes is Bad Strategy 101.

#### Sara Netanjahu

Theorerized by the Israeli Left and Center to puppeteer her husband, known to abuse the staff of The House of the Prime Minister (Israel's version of the White House), she is generally considered by non-Bibist Israelis to be a, quote, "greedy sadistic control freak leeching off of public funds".

This being true is largely irrelevant; As all of the Netanjahus' actions (and therefore, motives) would then be atributted to Sara instead.


#### Ya'ir Netanjahu

The Netanjahus have a son, Ya'ir Netanjahu, who is currently (2024) living in the USA under government protection,
and was involved in *several* racist controversies; Some of their political, whole-country-affecting decisions can be atributted to trying to protect their son;
It is plausible they're Helicopter parents and a threat to their son, to them, is a threat to the entire nation
(as it is likely they see a threat to him as a threat to themselves,
and we've alrady established the Netanjahus cannot differatiate between their own interests and the state's).

### Minister of Interior Security Ben Gvir and Kahanism

Ben Gvir is a Kahanist, the ideology non-famously described by a Kahanist Rabbi to be different from Nazism simply due to "being correct"[^1].
He's also the Minister of Interior Security, and as such, in charge of the police.

Now, before you read the rest of this:
Most Haredim truly, *truly* live on public funds without contributing to society at all. It is very important for you to understand this.
Their job is to pray and study a book they remember by heart by the age of 12, and they're paid to do so by the government.
They're wildly uneducated in anything beyond religious studies; They do not learn math, science, anything;
And this results in them using even *more* public funds, as an uneducated society, for example[^2],
would eat more sugar causing them to need more dental care and diabetes treatment[^3],
which are paid for by the public (as Israel is a welfare state)!
I'm not calling against Haredim here; they're victims, their vote automatically bought by politicians at birth, and even worse,
using others' money. Truly, the perfect heist.

Haredim, as you might've gussed from my introduction to this section,
are Ben Gvir's and Kahanism's main voterbase and [bloc vote](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voting_bloc) for whoever their Rabbi tells them to;
Therefore, Ben Gvir is pressured by said Rabbis to deliver on his promises, and he does so mainly using [Trump] tactics: announcing horrible, terrible things,
forcing people to get used to them (except with more, "it's war, and he's an idiot anyway, what can we do", denial-of-wtf than "free speech so he can",
this is *not* America); This is why Ben Gvir often tweets and says things that ultimately hinder his cause; As if he didn't,
his Rabbis would disapprove of him and select a new guy to fill the position; This is a "do not assasinate, for there are worse" situation.

Speaking of the "DoNt AF Them AW" rule, Ben Gvir's trying to put all Arabs under a light of "criminals", that way he can justify destroying their homes and building new, free (rule of thumb: "if it ain't free it ain't for a Haredi" — it rhymes cause it's true),
shiny ones for his Rabbis and their followers to excitedly colonize;
This is why:
* The Israeli government is violating said "DoNt AF Them AW" rule: to create a more bloodthirsty, more violant Hamas and Hezbollah,
  legitimizing Ben Gvir's agenda.
* Druze people, who likely suffered the most from this war, and yet are still serving in the IDF, do not get proper treatment;
  Ben Gvir is just waiting for them to grow tired of this so he could frame them, and therefore, all Israeli Arabs
  (who've truly became a part of Israeli society due to the war, a situation Ben Gvir dislikes), as criminals.
* Crime in Israeli Arab society was never solved; Such a thing would go directly against Ben Gvir's, and other, less-extremist politicians' agendas.
* Ben Gvir is trying to takeover the Israeli police and/or found a private militia;
  making people look like criminals is much easier when you can arrest them whenever it's most conenvient for you,
  instead of having to wait for unimportant things such as truth and reality.
  It's also useful for silencing those pesky protesters that cause your Rabbis to think you aren't doing your job well, and that you should be replaced.

### Minister of Treasury Bezalel Smotrich

Remember the settlement thing from before? Well, if you asked yourselves,
"but rando on the internet! How can Haredim not work, *and* displace others, *and* settle on that land?", I have the answer!
If you didn't, bad news, you're somewhat gullible to stuff randos on the internet say about entire groups of peoples.

My answer is very simple: Bezalel Smotrich. The guy who keeps giving government money to illegal Israeli villages. And I mean illegal by *Israeli* law.
Think of him as Ben Gvir, but if instead of publicly celebrating killing and displacing people, he just conveniently avoids preventing the former,
and not-so-causally encourages the latter;
If I say "Mitnakhabel" (compound word for "mitnakhel", not-so-legal-implications version for "settler" and "mekhabel", "terrorist"),
I'm most likely talking about someone who voted for Smotrich.

Smotrich's voterbase, as you might've guessed by now, are Religious Nationalists (["דתיים לאומיים"](https://he.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%93%D7%AA%D7%99%D7%99%D7%9D_%D7%9C%D7%90%D7%95%D7%9E%D7%99%D7%99%D7%9D)).
That is, not Haredim, but religious Jews who *don't* have an issue with taking matters to their own hands.
Haredim believe God himself will give them what they think they deserve; Religious Nationalists believe God only told them they have the right to *live* there,
and the implementation is up to them.

Not all Religious Nationalists support displacement and Haredim's right to leech off of others; In fact,
Smotrich himself encouraged Haredim to enlist to the military.

Smotrich's voterbase don't only target Palestinian villages, by the way;
some of them also have a knack out of taking over Khiloni (Jewish non-religious) villages.
First, context; Israel has a unique system where villages are allowed to admit or deny people who want to join them,
based on how fitting their personality is to the existing community.
Think HOAs, but one that you actually agree with on stuff (don't worry, you still fight with your neighbors). Cool!
I assume you may be asking, "but rando on the internet! Isn't this discrimination?", so I'll answer in two ways:
1. Discrimination is illegal (read: it's only being done *under* the table).
2. If a village is purposefully not letting you live there because you're *insert adjective*, you probably don't want to live there anyway;
   Think of this as a safety net for stubborn minorities. It's not a bug, it's a feature.

Now, surely, you must be asking, "but RotI! if villages can select who lives with them, how do they takeover villages?", and I have an answer!
What a coincidence.
And the answer is split in four:
1. Khilonim can't tell them no just because they're religious; Admittance committees have to prove they're a takeover-er.
2. When Smotrich's voterbase is in the government or the local municipal council, they deny Khiloni people without fearing persecution.
3. What Khiloni wants to live in a village where literally everything is forbidden on saturdays?
4. No Khiloni cares enough about what religion a village is to relocate their entire life to it, as they do not have any religious motivation regarding the idea.

### The Bidens

No, no, I'm not claiming Joe Biden, still-POTUS-but-not-for-long, is a part of the Israeli government.
But I *am* claiming that like Biden, a lot of politicians protect the status quo.
Why? Because they were raised thinking they're living in (or helped creating what they think is) a near-utopia,
and that this is a good thing, and they simply don't want to deal with the identity crisis it'd take to realize that no,
their country isn't perfect, but in fact far from it; That is: They're centrists.
This is nearly everyone else in the government; People who hate [Netanjahu] for his inaction and corruptness, but still agree with him on a policy level,
because that's what we were always doing. And of course, like everything in Israel, there's also a financial motive involved;
If they accept that they, as politicians, are wrong, they'll lose their voterbase, counting on the rather small chance that the left will believe them.

There are some people in the government that are truly trying, but fail out of sheer incompetence; Miri Regev, for example,
genuinely tried fixing Israeli public transportation; I'll sum her attempts as, please, God,
may we have as many wars as the amount of bus lines I have managed not to hate under Regev's term as Minister of Transportation.
On a more serious note, this shows Netanjahu's and Ben Gvir's true motives;
Instead of surrounding themselves with skilled people they can rely on ([Gallant](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoav_Gallant)),
they choose people they can trust to be dumb enough not to betray them ([Israel Katz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Israel_Katz) as Minister of Security;
Yes, the same Israel Katz who is *still* the Minister of Foreign Relations, and managed to cause the entire world to hate Israel,
a feat no other politician succeeded at for *75 years*).

### Israel: Conclusion

All of this forms a system where all sections of the right and most of the center ally:
* Bibists follow [Netanjahu], because of populism (that is—people vote for him himself, not for his policies);
* There aren't enough Bibists, so Netanjahu allies with [Ben Gvir], who illegally displaces Arab villages;
* [Smotrich] and his voterbase use the opportunity to resettle in said villages;
* And anti-Bibist rightists and centrists do not object, as although they heavily dislike Netanjahu, they find "unity" to be important above all,
  as "we're at war, and in war, everyone loses".

Note how similar this is to America's dual-party system; In the USA, all it took was [a populist][Trump] to become the Republican's party presidential candidate;
In Israel, a failing populist clinged to his position by allying with the rest of his side of the political spectrum,
rendering the government as effectively dual-party!

And this system, composed of people that want to takeover others' home, is completely dependent on war to continue to exist; If not for war,
the anti-Bibi right (Gantz, Gallant, etc.) would directly oppose Netanjahu.

## Hezbollah and Hamas

Hezbollah and Hamas are both Shia-muslim terrorist organizations founded during the Lebanon Wars and the First Intifada, respectively. They are both dependent on the following:
* External funding from [Iran]; The Lebanon Wars, in addition to Hezbollah's own hypermilitarization of Lebanon, has left Lebanon's economy absolutely devastated,
  and the same applies to Hamas, its neverending conflict with Israel, and Gaza;
  Hezbollah and Hamas both redirect a significant amount of tax money from the public's interests to themselves.
* The Lebanense and Gazan populations' acceptance of the need for the war; This one is very fragile. Hezbollah and Hamas have both managed to strike Israel first,
  and therefore, are seen as the main cause of the war.
* Israel's willingness to fight against; their declared goal is to defeat Israel. And if Israel doesn't fight,
  what excuse do they have to exist? For this reason, it is highly unlikely that Hezbollah will ever destroy Israel, for it is dependent on it;
  The Christian, Druze, and Sunni-muslim Lebanese and Palestinian populations only tolerate the Shia Hamas and Hezbollah due to
  Israel being seen as a larger threat.

*This section, and some of the following ones, needs to be expanded. Please, contact me if you have insights you think are important;
As an Israeli, I obviously have a lot more of those into my own government.*

### Hamas

Hamas additionally depends on [Israel] being held back by the international community, and on the hostages;
Although [Netanjahu] may be trying to get rid of them, even then, he cannot simply nuke (literally or not) Gaza;
That would be political suicide, as it would end the war he needs to stay in office, and would even further distant the center from him,
as releasing the hostages is the only reason the center endures this war.

Hamas uses emotion, promises of revenge, and financial incentive (as it is an incredibly resourceful organization compared to the rest of Gaza)
to recruit to its military; It is not a professional military; that is why October 7th involved so many hideous acts, beyond 'just' death and killing.

### Hezbollah

Hezbollah is a much more organized and professional military than Hamas; It uses the financial incentive a lot more,
as it is harder to recruit people to risk their lives for others. It is a lot more capable than Hamas, but also a lot more dependent on Israel;
Hamas' leaders have a personal incentive to *win*, and defeat Israel; Hezbollah's only have a financial one (Iranian funding, Lebanese support).

Therefore, it is highly unlikely that Hezbollah will ever 'win', as it is not a life-or-death situation for it;
Lebanon would be in a much better state if not for the war, and it has *the choice* that Hamas simply doesn't have
(due to Netanjahu refusing to sign a ceasefire).
*This does not mean Hezbollah is a victim of some sort; This northern war and Lebanon's current economical state are Hezbollah's doing.*

## Iran

Iran is s a direct mirror image of [Israel]. Like [Netanjahu], the Iranian government *needs* an archemeny—"The Zionist Entity"—to
remain in power, and like Israel, it is almost completely ruled by a right-winged minority that leeches off of the majority.
There are many, many comparisons to be drawn—but for our purposes, *Iran's only goal is to destroy Israel*.

You might be wondering, how is Iran different to Hezbollah, o rando on the internet? And I have an answer: Iran has another archenemy in line—The
[United States of America]. Imagine what happens if Iran manages to control [Israel], Palestine, Lebanon, [Jordan], Yemen,
*and* big parts of Syria and Iraq? It would become an even stronger regional power, and only Egypt, Saudi Arabia,
and the UAE will remain to oppose it—control over such a big part of the Arab world *would* be a threat to the USA.

Iran directly profits from Palestinians' and Lebaneses' suffering as well; The more they suffer,
the more violent they are, and therefore, so is Israel; and the more violent Israel is, the closer it is to being defeated,
and the better of an archenemy it is, and therefore, the better of a hold Iran has on its population.

## United States of America

The US itself has three separate, conflicting interests in the Middle East:
* Sell as much weaponry as possible.
* Trigger a second, western, capitalist Arab Spring.
* Avoid War World 3 and protect its trade routes.

### Trump

Somehow-President-in-waiting-again, the only thing Trump wants is fame. He doesn't care if it's good news,
or bad news—his goal is to simply *be* the news.

As such, Trump allied himself with the most vocal, radical, and horrible group of people he could find—the American far right.
Therefore, starting his presidency, it'll be *almost completely impossible* to predict the USA's actions;
Everything is possible, from nuking Gaza, to recognizing a Palestinian State, all with the sole purpose of being mentioned in History books.

Trump will be pressured by his party, advisors, and the
[Military–Industrial complex](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Military%E2%80%93industrial_complex) to:
* Recognize Israeli sovereignty over southern Lebanon.
* Continue and extend sponsoring of Israel.
* Make decisions that'll further escalate the conflict, to allow selling more and more weapons.
* *etc.*

## Jordan and the Palestinian Authority

Jordan and the Palestinian Authority both depend on:
* [Israel] for trade and defense.
* Lack of migrants; otherwise, their supporters would no longer be the majority.

### Jordan

Jordan is a Bedouin kingdom with a near-50% Palestinian minority that does *not* support its alliance with Israel
(This is why the Jordanian king does not accept Palestinian refugees); And as such, it is in the Jordanian government's best interest to keep
the 'Palestinian problem' to Israel.

### Palestinian Authority

The Authority, considered to be extremely corrupt, with alleged shady ties to mafias and terror organizations (Israeli and Palestinian alike),
is a classical third-world government; Extremely poor, and the taxes it does manage to collect mysteriously end up in politicians' pockets.
That is, *the Palestinian Authority's main goal is to enrich itself.*

Currently, the PA has no real power; But it is heavily criticized by Palestinians for its cooperation with the Israeli government,
and as such, it does not want to accept Gazan refugees (who at least pre-Oct. 7th, are more likely to support [Hamas]),
as its leaders want to preserve their seat.

# Conclusion

* Israel is on a *Messiah Mode*[^1], held hostage by the right, a half of which incompetently attempting to win an extremely bloody religious war,
  and the other half resisting any attempt to steer off of this deathly, terrible status quo.
* Iran is a classical dictatorship, attempting to defeat Israel with no care in the world about the side-effects.
* **Palestinians are caught in the crossfire of a situation in which all parties involved benefit from them suffering:**
  * [Netanjahu] needs the war to stay in power;
  * [Ben Gvir] and [Smotrich] view the war as religiously justified, and benefit from the land cleared by it;
  * [Hamas] and [Hezbollah] need war to justify their existence;
  * [Jordan], Egypt, and the [Palestinian Authority] do not want to accept Gazan refugees due to their alliances with and dependency on [Israel];
  * The [USA][United States of America] financially benefits from selling weapons to anyone interested;

[^1]: See *Messiah Mode*, [David Sheen](http://davidsheen.com)'s excellent talk about Kahanism and Israeli politics as a whole, available [on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eFl4U2NRJTg).
[^2]: Here are some more regulation changes that have passed since the last elections:
    * Tax per kilometer driven with electric cars was introduced, and the tax deduction accompanying them was revoked.
    * Postponed expirey of Haredim's exclusion from mandatory military service multiple times.
    * Low-income men's tax deduction was increased to match those of low-income women.
    * Postponed expirey of a policy deducting parents' taxes for every child aged 6-12,
      unfairly benefitting Haredim who tend to bear almost two times as much children as the rest of the population.
    * Increased sales tax by 1%.

    <small>*There are surely more, you just need to find them, and in the darkness bind them.*</small>

[^3]: On his first day in office, [Smotrich] revoked the taxes on single-use plastic and sweetened drinks.
      16% of Haredi men have diabetes, compared to 10% of non-Arab men; Sweetened drinks tax decreased consumption by ~15%.
      [Ynet](https://www.ynet.co.il/judaism/article/bkgbkwx5i) (Hebrew)

[Assassination of Rabbin]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assassination_of_Yitzhak_Rabin
[Ben Gvir]: #minister-of-interior-security-ben-gvir-and-kahanism
[Hamas]: #hamas
[Haredim]: #minister-of-interior-security-ben-gvir-and-kahanism
[Hezbollah]: #hezbollah
[Iran]: #iran
[Israel]: #israel
[Jordan]: #jordan
[Netanjahu]: #the-netanjahus
[B. Netanjahu]: #prime-minister-binyamin-netanjahu
[S. Netanjahu]: #sara-netanjahu
[Palestinian Authority]: #palestinian-authority
[Smotrich]: #minister-of-treasury-bezalel-smotrich
[The Bidens]: #the-bidens
[Trump]: #trump
[United States of America]: #united-states-of-america
